\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}

\date{}

\title{Security-Enhanced Data Delivery in Sensor Networks}
\author{  Chin-Fu Kuo$^{\dagger}$, Yung-Feng Lu$^{\dagger}$, Tei-Wei Kuo$^{\dagger *}$, Ai-Chun
Pang$^{\dagger *}$\\
\small{Email:
\{d89005, d93023, ktw\}@csie.ntu.edu.tw, Fax:+886-223628167}\\
\small{$^{\dagger}$ Department of Computer Science and Information
Engineering}\\
\small{$^{*}$ Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia}\\
\small{National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC}}

\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{abstract}
While various sensor data are collected and delivered to users,
useful information might be intercepted by malicious people. The
security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed for data encryption and source authentication. Analytic
study on the security level of the proposed methodology would be
provided, and a series of experiments on real sensor networks
would be conducted to evaluate the energy consumption of the
proposed security support.
\end{abstract}

\noindent {\bf Keywords: sensor networks, data delivery, security,
authentication, confidentiality}

\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\newtheorem{claim}{Claim}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{rrule}{Rule}

\newcommand{\ls}[1]
   {\dimen0=\fontdimen6\the\font
     \lineskip=#1\dimen0
     \advance\lineskip.5\fontdimen5\the\font
     \advance\lineskip-\dimen0
     \lineskiplimit=.9\lineskip
     \baselineskip=\lineskip     \advance\baselineskip\dimen0
     \normallineskip\lineskip
     \normallineskiplimit\lineskiplimit
     \normalbaselineskip\baselineskip
     \ignorespaces
   }

% for double-spaced documents

\ls{1.5}



Sensor networks usually consist of a large number of tiny
battery-powered sensor nodes and one or more base stations. Data
are collected by sensor nodes and delivered to users through base
stations, where data might or might not be processed during the
delivery. A sensor node usually has very limited computing power
and data processing capability. While various data are collected
and delivered to base stations, useful information might be
intercepted by malicious people during each delivery, especially
when sensor nodes are deployed in hostile regions such as those in
a battlefield. How to resolve this security issue might be a major
factor to the success of the deployment of sensor networks in many
applications.


The security enforcement of data delivery in sensor networks might
have to address the authentication of data sources and the
encryption/decryption of sensor data. In this research, we are
interested in security-enhanced data delivery in sensor networks
with certain capability in authentication. A methodology is
proposed in the encryption and decryption of sensor data with the
considerations of the capability of sensor nodes. In this work, we
assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in any
non-proper way such that information (such as the key array to be
introduced in the next paragraph) kept in the sensor nodes is
destroyed.


Before the deployment of sensor nodes and base stations, a
collection $S$ of keys are generated first. Each key in $S$ is cut
into two halves such that a collection $T$ of ``half'' keys are
derived, where $|T| = 2|S|$. ``Half'' keys in $T$ are saved in an
array and shared among sensor nodes and base stations to be
deployed. Any two ``half'' keys in $T$ could be concatenated
together to become a new key for data encryption in sensor
networks later. In order to avoid potential Chosen Plaintext
Attack, we should avoid the adoption of any weak key in the
catenation of ``half'' keys, where a weak key is a less secure key
that is prone to cryptanalysis (For example, DES has around 16
weak keys out of $2^{56}$ keys, and weak keys could often be
identified by related algorithms). If there is any occurrence of a
weak key in a concatenation, then one ``half'' key in the weak key
is removed from $T$ and would not exist in the shared array.
During the run time, when a user make a request on the collection
of sensor data, a base station that is responsible to the request
would send a randomly selected index $i$ (to the shared array) to
all related sensor nodes. Any sensor node that is responsible to
the collection of the sensor data must randomly pick up an index
$j$ to the shared array and generates an encryption key $k_{ij}$
by concatenating the i-th ``half'' key and the j-th ``half'' key
in the shared array. Any sensor data collected by the sensor node
must be encrypted by key $k_{ij}$ and sent (along with the index
$j$) to the base station. The base station then uses the index $j$
(and its index $i$) and, thus, $k_{ij}$ to decrypt the received
sensor data. Note that the derivation of $k_{ij}$ in the base
station could also help in the authentication of the sensor node.
(We assume that a sensor node is destroyed when it is opened in
any non-proper way.) We shall provide analytic study on the
security level of the proposed methodology and conduct a series of
experiments on real sensor networks to evaluate the energy
consumption of the proposed security support.


``Half'' keys in the shared array should not be long because
sensor nodes only have limited computing power. The risk on
potential attacks is reduced by the random selection/generation of
keys by sensor nodes and base stations. The encryption of the data
at sensor nodes could also be done by dedicated hardware, such as
that in IC cards, to save energy and improve the encryption
performance.

\begin{figure}[htb]
\setlength{\epsfysize}{2.5 in}
\cepsf{base_station_and_Sensor_Node.eps} \caption{Base station and
sensor nodes} \label{EEE:1}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
\documentclass[10pt]{article}

\usepackage{pst-plot}
\usepackage{pstcol}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{bar}
%\usepackage{pstchart}

\voffset=0.1in \hoffset=-0.1in
 \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.1in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\evensidemargin}{0in}
\addtolength{\oddsidemargin}{0in} \setlength{\marginparwidth}{0in}
\setlength{\marginparsep}{0in}

\setlength{\topmargin}{0in} \setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0in} \setlength{\topskip}{0in}

\setlength{\footskip}{0.5cm} \setlength{\textheight}{24.5cm}
\setlength{\textwidth}{15.8cm} \paperheight=29.7cm
\paperwidth=21cm
\begin{document}
%\tableofcontents

\input{epsf}
